Add resource management alerts (#82)
appuio/component-openshift4-monitoring: docs/modules/ROOT/pages/runbooks/memorycapacity.adoc

= Alert Group: syn-MemoryCapacity

We provide two rules to notice if a cluster has high memory usage.
If a cluster uses up most of its memory some workload might start to get terminated.

== Alert Rule: SYN_ClusterMemoryUsageHigh [[SYN_ClusterMemoryUsageHigh]]

=== icon:glasses[] Overview

> This alert means that the total memory usage over all worker nodes is high.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This alert indicates that the total memory usage over all worker nodes is high.
```

> By default it will fire if the amount unused memory is less than the memory capacity of the largest worker node.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, it will fire if the amount unused memory is less than the memory capacity of the largest worker node.
```

> This means if you receive this alert in case of a woker node failure the cluster will likely start to OOM kill workloads.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you receive this alert, a worker node failure in the cluster will likely cause customer workloads to be OOM killed.
```

After verifying the alert you should consider adding more memory capacity.

=== icon:search[] Investigate

* Verify the alert
** Verify that the reported load is correct.
+
[source,shell]
----
kubectl top nodes
----
+
If not there might be a bug in the alert rule.

> Please disable this alert and open an issue for this component.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If that's the case, please disable this alert and open an issue for this component.
```

** Check if there is a sudden increase in memory usage that indicate that this might be temporary or caused by a misbehaving workload.
* Either add more worker nodes or resize existing worker nodes according to the install https://kb.vshn.ch/oc4/index.html[instructions for your cloud]

=== icon:wrench[] Tune

> If this alert is non actionable, noisy, or was raised too late you might want to tune it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If this alert isn't actionable, noisy, or was raised too late you might want to tune it.
```

Through the component parameters you have the option modify the alert threshold, change for how long it needs to be firing until you are alerted, or disable it outright.
In the example below will adapt the rule to only alert after four hours and change the threshold to 128 GB.

[source,yaml]
----
capacityAlerts:
  groups:
    MemoryCapacity:
      rules:
        ClusterMemoryUsageHigh:
          enabled: true
          for: 4h
          expr:
            threshold: '128*1024*1024*1024' <1>
----
<1> The threshold can be an arbitrary promql expression

== Alert Rule: SYN_ExpectClusterMemoryUsageHigh [[SYN_ExpectClusterMemoryUsageHigh]]

=== icon:glasses[] Overview

This alert means that we expect the total Memory utilization over all worker nodes might soon be high.

> By default this alert will fire if we expect the amount of unused memory to be less than the memory capacity of the largest worker node in three days.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, this alert will fire if we expect the amount of unused memory to be less than the memory capacity of the largest worker node in three days.
```
